your image of airplane food is probably
a limp salad and overcooked meat covered
with unidentifiable sauce but many
airlines are working hard to change that
image by improving their in-flight meal
services Swiss International Airlines
invited us to see what they're doing to
elevate their premium class in-flight
services at their Zurich headquarters
and at the Gate Gourmet facility but
first we started our journey at New
York's JFK Airport first and business
class passengers get to relax here
before boarding in Lovely's was there
left one Swiss gave us unprecedented
access to their premium lounge which has
great amenities including pre-flight
snacks beverages shower facilities TV
and Internet access and a special
cellphone-free quiet room filled with
massage chairs perfect for relaxing
before a long flight once on board the
aircraft we experienced Swiss
hospitality with a welcome drink and
then settled in for the flight we really
want to stress how great Swiss was for
letting us tape onboard to show you how
well they treat their guests the taste
of Switzerland program consists of
rotating monthly menus featuring each
canton of switzerland and overseen by
the best chefs in each of these Canton's
on our way to Zurich we enjoyed meals
created by chef picometer
of the dolger Grand Hotel in Zurich we
knew we'd see how these meals were made
later so we paid particular attention to
what we were served for dinner
upon arrival in Zurich we experienced
the unique mooing inter-terminal trains
we then got a detailed tour of the
Zurich Airport with its state-of-the-art
facilities including Quick Links to both
an integrated train station and a bus
terminal serving the city and region we
then headed over to the adjacent Gate
Gourmet facility to see how those
in-flight meals are planned and prepared
so why are you drying out there myself
unusually because I love dressing in
velcro clothing we are actually going
down to take a look at how food is made
before it gets on an airplane and a lot
of people never get to see this part
this was actually a summer job for me
before I went to live in Paris when I
was in college so now you'll get to see
what I did every day that was fun okay
you don't do a Ravel curl but let's go
take a look
the folks at Gate Gourmet spend the day
washing lots of lettuce for those
in-flight salads in a giant washing
machine they also top off thousands of
sweet desserts and make hundreds of
specialty Swiss savory tarts each day so
you see this is the end of the
production line for this particular dish
it's a fish dish that comes with the
fish dish that has some some vegetables
and all inside and the little flower is
a really interesting thing it's called
it's a cheese and it's called Tet dum
one which literally means monk's head
there's a special shaver that they use
to shave it and it makes this
interesting shape and of course the
reason they call it is because a monk
has that shaped spot on his head so we
can see all of the things that go into
making this and this entire meal
we even stuffed the tomato and they've
got an olive and everything there it's
really nice something that many people
are not aware of office that we produce
about 90 different special meals Muslim
culture but also gluten-free low
cholesterol etc etc and this one's the
LOB size of course is normally just one
one here one here one here and this but
this is also an element they would say
of the boutique airline that we can
provide all passengers need on board so
this is a coconut cream with a pineapple
topping now what is the point of kind of
like your living room
like a cheesecake but also designed by
Tesco and this is the only oven we have
in the whole country and it's dedicated
really for the specialities of the
specialities
okay so now we're finally here at the
end of the tour thank you very much
Marcus behind - what are they doing here
they are fighting the populace - health
components we have produced in how to
evolve it depending on what it is so in
the end of the line here and this is the
production the production this is the
last stop it sees before they pack it
all up and put it on the plane and put
it in front of you so thank you again
both of life airs thanks mark thanks
again to Swiss and Gate Gourmet for
giving us this special peek behind the
scenes find more videos from our trip to
Switzerland at culinary Media Network
calm